README.md, before:

# Neural emulator for interstellar chemistry

This repository contains the code for using a conditional neural field
as an emulator for instellar chemistry.

## Installation

This repository makes use of PyTorch and other Python packages. You can have them
installed in your system, but we recommend to follow these instructions to
have a working environment with everything needed for running the code.

Install Miniconda in your system. Go to https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/ and download the executable file for your system. For instance, for a typical Linux system, you should do:

    wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

or 

    curl -lO https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

Now install Miniconda

    chmod +x Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

and follow the instructions for selecting the directory.

Now create an environment and install the packages:

    conda create -n chemistry python=3.10
    conda activate chemistry
    conda install -c conda-forge numpy tqdm 

Now install PyTorch. Go to https://pytorch.org/ and select from the properties of 
your system from the matrix (Linux/Mac/Windows, CPU/GPU, conda/pip). If you have an 
NVIDIA GPU card in your system, you can take advantage of the acceleration that it
provides (around a factor 10 faster). For instance, in a system with an NVIDIA GPU
card with CUDA drivers on version 12.1, you can install PyTorch using:

    conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia

or

    pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio

if using `pip` for the installation of packages.

In a CPU-only system:

    conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio cpuonly -c pytorch

or

    pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu

if using `pip` for the installation of packages.

## Running the code

An example of how to run the code is shown in `example.py`, that we reproduce here:

    # Define the number of random models 
    n_models = 64
    batch_size = 32

    nh = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(1e4), np.log10(1e7), size=n_models)
    T = np.random.uniform(10.0, 80.0, size=n_models)
    crir = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(1e-17), np.log10(1e-15), size=n_models)
    sulfur = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(1.5e-5), np.log10(7.5e-8), size=n_models)
    uv_flux = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(0.1), np.log10(1e4), size=n_models)
    
    t = np.logspace(0, 7, 64)

    net = emulator.ChemistryEmulator(gpu=0, batch_size=32)
    abundance = net.evaluate(t, T, nh, crir, sulfur, uv_flux, batch_size=32, species=None)

We choose 64 models with random properties inside the range of validity. Select the output times and call the emulator. The `batch_size` defines the number of models that will be computed in parallel. This depends on the amount of memory you have but it can be a large number. The keyword `species` indicates a list of the indices of which species you
want to compute, from the list of 192 species that can be found in `list_molecules.txt`. If abstent or
set to `None`, all species are computed.

## Weights

You can download the weights of the model and the training/validation data from

    https://cloud.iac.es/index.php/s/eZAT4ocJFkPyn3R

Put the weight files in the working directory and run the code.

Commit message:

Added visual extinction and the reactions networks used

README.md, after:

# Neural emulator for interstellar chemistry

Astrochemical models are important tools to interpret observations of molecular and atomic species in different 
environments. However, these models are time-consuming, precluding a thorough exploration of the parameter space, 
leading to uncertainties and biased results. Using neural networks to simulate the behaviour of astrochemical models 
is a way to circumvent this problem, providing fast calculations that are based on real astrochemical models. We 
present a fast neural emulator of the astrochemical code Nautilus based on conditional neural fields. The resulting 
model produces the abundance of 192 species for arbitrary times between 1 and 107 yr. Uncertainties well below 0.2 dex 
are found for all species, while the computing time is of the order of 10000 times smaller than Nautilus. This 
opens up the possibility of performing much more complex forward models to better understand the physical properties of the 
interstellar medium. 

This repository contains the code for using the conditional neural field
as an emulator for instellar chemistry (see [Asensio Ramos et al. 2024](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2024MNRAS.531.4930A/abstract).
We note that all calculations are done for a visual extinction of 5.

## Installation

This repository makes use of PyTorch and other Python packages. You can have them
installed in your system, but we recommend to follow these instructions to
have a working environment with everything needed for running the code.

Install Miniconda in your system. Go to https://docs.conda.io/projects/miniconda/en/latest/ and download the executable file for your system. For instance, for a typical Linux system, you should do:

    wget https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

or 

    curl -lO https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

Now install Miniconda

    chmod +x Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
    ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh

and follow the instructions for selecting the directory.

Now create an environment and install the packages:

    conda create -n chemistry python=3.10
    conda activate chemistry
    conda install -c conda-forge numpy tqdm 

Now install PyTorch. Go to https://pytorch.org/ and select from the properties of 
your system from the matrix (Linux/Mac/Windows, CPU/GPU, conda/pip). If you have an 
NVIDIA GPU card in your system, you can take advantage of the acceleration that it
provides (around a factor 10 faster). For instance, in a system with an NVIDIA GPU
card with CUDA drivers on version 12.1, you can install PyTorch using:

    conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia

or

    pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio

if using `pip` for the installation of packages.

In a CPU-only system:

    conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio cpuonly -c pytorch

or

    pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu

if using `pip` for the installation of packages.

## Running the code

An example of how to run the code is shown in `example.py`, that we reproduce here:

    # Define the number of random models 
    n_models = 64
    batch_size = 32

    nh = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(1e4), np.log10(1e7), size=n_models)
    T = np.random.uniform(10.0, 80.0, size=n_models)
    crir = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(1e-17), np.log10(1e-15), size=n_models)
    sulfur = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(1.5e-5), np.log10(7.5e-8), size=n_models)
    uv_flux = 10.0**np.random.uniform(np.log10(0.1), np.log10(1e4), size=n_models)
    
    t = np.logspace(0, 7, 64)

    net = emulator.ChemistryEmulator(gpu=0, batch_size=32)
    abundance = net.evaluate(t, T, nh, crir, sulfur, uv_flux, batch_size=32, species=None)

We choose 64 models with random properties inside the range of validity. Select the output times and call the emulator. The `batch_size` defines the number of models that will be computed in parallel. This depends on the amount of memory you have but it can be a large number. The keyword `species` indicates a list of the indices of which species you
want to compute, from the list of 192 species that can be found in `list_molecules.txt`. If abstent or
set to `None`, all species are computed.

## Weights

You can download the weights of the model and the training/validation data from

    https://cloud.iac.es/index.php/s/eZAT4ocJFkPyn3R

Put the weight files in the working directory and run the code.
